Hello my friends.
All right.
Are you ready for that last tutorial of the hierarchical clustering implementation.
Here we go.
We now have the Dan program which gave us the optimal number of clusters which turned out to be five.
And so now we're going to build train and run the hierarchical clustering to indeed identify five clusters.
All right so let's do this.
Let's create a new code cell here to build train and run this hierarchical clustering model.
All right.
So remember to build our Daniel gram we actually used the site by library because it contained this
Daniel Graham function which directly returned the Daniel Graham which was perfect.
But now in order to build the REIT eco classroom model with five clusters.
Well we're going to go back to our best friend Sackett here and because indeed psychedelia and contains
if you remember the cluster module which contains the ugly Marathi clustering class which is exactly
you know the classic version of hierarchical clustering the one that you studied in the intuition lectures.
All right so we're going to start from psychic learn.
There we go from which we're gonna get access to cluster.
The cluster module from which we're going to import that Anglo narrative clustering class.
Perfect.
Thank you so much Google collab.
All right.
Now the next natural step as usual as most of the time is to create an object or an instance of this
class.
And we're going to call it H C because this object will be nothing else than the hierarchical clustering
model itself.
You know with all its algorithm inside.
So H.C. and therefore now we're gonna call that class to indeed create an instance of this class and
then adding some parenthesis.
And now let's see what we have to input.
All right.
So can you guess the first parameter.
It's pretty obvious.
It's actually the same as in the Caymans class the first parameter is the number of clusters we want
to identify in our dataset and we know that it's five.
But you know I'm very curious about that three you know that number three is the other option of the
optimal number of clusters.
So you know we'll try that at the end we will see what we get.
But let's start first with n clusters equals five.
All right five clusters.
And now we need to add two more arguments.
The second one is affinity which is simply the type of distance that will be computed in order to measure
the variance within your clusters because then you're going to see that we're using in this ward method
which corresponds to the minimization of the variance within your clusters.
So for affinity here we're going to choose well the U CLI D and distance.
And that last parameter that we need to add is of course that method.
But this time the name of the parameter is not method it is directly linked cage.
All right.
And so linkage here should be equal you know there are several options but the one we recommend is the
ward method which corresponds to the minimum variance method.
All right.
And that's it.
So now we have are hierarchical classroom model but of course it is not yet trained or fitted to the
data set.
And so that's exactly our next step here.
But remember that at the same time we want to create this dependent variable which contains for each
customer the future class they will belong to you know the future cluster they will belong to.
And therefore instead of only using the fit method which you know usually trains your machinery models
on your data set.
Well we're going to use the fit predict method which will not only train your hierarchical classroom
model on your data set but also will create at the same time this dip in invaluable continue for each
of the customers the cluster they belong to.
All right.
And speaking of this future created dependent variable.
Well we're going to introduce here a new variable which we're going to call y underscore H.S. and this
is exactly you know that dependent variable you see here with the five clusters.
All right White H.S. and let's go back.
That's why H.C. variable well will be equal to what is returned by this fit predict method not only
training the hierarchical classroom model on the data set but also returning the clusters to which each
customer belongs to.
All right.
And therefore what we have to do here is just take our H.S. object because that's from this object that
we have to call this fit underscore predict method and inside we of course input x just x.
Right.
Because we just need to connect.
We just need to fit r h the object a high IQ cluster model to the data set which is exactly x but only
you know remember containing the two last features.
The annual income and spending score.
All right.
So exactly the same as with came It's okay.
And that's it.
Once again thanks to our best friend Sackett learned well in only three lines of code.
We build a train and run the hierarchical classroom model to identify five clusters.
So let's do this.
Let's run this cell and done.
We have our model and it is already trained.
So now let's actually do a little print to see you know that created dependent variable Y H C and let's
play this cell and we'll see what we get.
All right.
So remember that the class numbers don't go from 1 to 5 but from 0 to 4 because indexes in Python start
from zero.
So let's see.
Let's open this again.
What these numbers mean is that well the first customer customer lady number one belongs to the last
cluster you know cluster number 5.
Then the second customer belongs to cluster number 4.
Third customer belongs to class number 5 or cluster of index 4 as you want.
Then customize number 4 belongs to cluster number 4.
All right so this is how you should read it.
And the last customer in this data set.
You know the customer actually number 200.
This one of age 30 and earning a high salary and spending a lot actually in the mall belongs to the
third cluster or cluster of index 2.
All right.
So that's how you should read it.
And now.
Now let's visualize the final cluster as you know now that we have this dependent variable that we just
created through the hierarchical clustering process.
And so there you go.
I'm going to close this.
We're going to run that sale too indeed.
Fine.
Actually you know the same clusters as with k means with remember this cluster representing the customers
that earn a low salary and don't spend much in the mall and therefore we should just not target them
too much because we want to be socially responsible and don't push them to consume too much.
Right.
However this cluster is the cluster of the customers having a high annual income but a low spending
score and therefore we want to target these customers to offer them some more attractive deals in order
to incentivize them to spend more and more because otherwise the more is missing out.
Then this cluster is the cluster of customers having a low annual income or high spending score and
therefore with these customers you know you want to be the maximum socially responsible and maybe protect
them from spending too much and potentially more than they could afford.
So to these customers we for example want to reduce any kind of advertising.
Then we have this cluster which is the best cluster you know the one we want to target the most because
it is a cluster of the customers having a high annual income and at the same time spending a lot.
So we definitely want to target these customers to you know offer them the new products new deals because
we know that we have a high chance to have a high conversion rates with them all right.
And then we have this cluster which is the average cluster you know average annual income and average
spending score.
And for this cluster Well we don't have much specific to do all right.
So these are the same five classes as with k means but now I'm very curious to see what we get with
three clusters and therefore what we're gonna do is try now and clusters call three here but then be
careful we need to actually remove two lines here when you know visualizing the clusters because each
scatter plot here corresponds to one cluster and therefore now since we're about to have three clusters
well we need to remove two classes here.
So we're going to remove cluster 4 and cluster 5 right.
And therefore we're just going to end up with cluster one cluster two interest the three of colors red
blue and green.
All right.
So let's just run this again.
You know we can leave the previous cells and just rerun this one to indeed get a new hierarchical classroom
model this time identifying three clusters we can print this again in order to get the new dependent
variable with this time indeed three clusters the cluster of index 0 which seems to contain most of
the first customers then the cluster of the next one the second closer and the cluster index to this
third cluster.
Okay.
And now I'm really curious to see what we get when visualizing the clusters.
Here we go.
We just have to play this cell again and let's see what we get all right.
OK.
So yeah really.
Five clusters was actually a better number because here were three clusters well tomorrow just put all
these customers you know actually the low income customers with both a low spending score or high spinning
score into a same cluster.
Also taking the average one and then we have these two other clusters the high spending score with the
high annual income and the low spending score with the high annual income.
And you know this still actually makes some sense because remember that the clusters of customers that
we really want to target after all are this one and this one and this you know is something we don't
really want to target but maybe protect you know you know as per our social responsibility.
So this actually still makes kind of sense.
And we indeed end up with the same focus of targeting these two important customers that can boost indeed
the sales.
All right.
So that was very interesting.
I I didn't expect actually to show you the result with three clusters.
I was just curious to see and that's very interesting because indeed we end up with kind of the same
final marketing decisions of targeting our customers.
All right.
So I hope you enjoyed clustering and I hope you are convinced that indeed you should have these two
clustering models key means in hierarchical clustering because indeed by trying to two you can get some
extra insights which is exactly what happened here when building hierarchical clustering with which
we got this extra insight of trying the moral with three clusters.
And so if by any chance you're wondering which model should I choose between K Means and hierarchical
clustering.
Well just run the two you know it would just take a few minutes and let's see if you get the same optimal
number of clusters and if not well you can try the two options.
You know if you get to optimal numbers of clusters between which you hesitate you try the two and then
you get the final insights to help you make the right decision.
Idiot.
All right.
So good for clustering.
Now we're going to move on to the next part.
Part Five on association rule learning it's gonna be pretty exciting we're gonna work on two new models
priory and ELA and so I will either meet you in this next part or if you want to learn or as well I
will meet you in the next section to build the hierarchical clustering model in R.
And either way I look forward to building another model with you.
And until then enjoy machine learning.